so uh hi everybody my name is anthony
bird
um developer of um s4 um i've
a little bit about me um i've not been
doing
web development really since i left high
school um i've been working
doing php node.js um a live video
contributor
um i've also done a fair bit of
wordpress contributing uh throughout my
career but
i tend not to talk about that too much
um i'm an ex-apple developer
um and i've also developed a project
called vipfs which you may or may not
have heard of
um it did quite well on the um ipfs
reddit
um and yes i'm the developer of ida io
which i'm kind of trying to create my
own version of aws um
using like purely alt tech so that's
kind of
a bit of a challenge and i run a
delivery company called teleport
i'll quickly touch on that right now
because um teleport is really what
funded um s4
um so basically i run a delivery company
uh in austin texas
um and we as you can see we've got a
handful of quite
have quite large clients and basically
all the kind of income i generate of
this this is mine like 495 it's my
thing that's what i do every single day
this is really what allows me to kind of
make projects like s4 and vip first
it's a little plug there um so great so
what is s4
um s4 is designed to be 100 compatible
s3 storage
access to tor and distributed using ipfs
um it's 100 uh yeah compatible with s3
and all their existing uh sdks and
whatnot
uh it's decentralized anonymous and it's
obviously permanent because ipfs
so i touched on the architecture quickly
so
the way i've designed s4 um i want i had
a few kind of design
specifications um i wanted it to not
require any third parties or
intermediaries meaning that
using typical http domains is off the
table
uh because that would require us having
to register a domain with a third party
um so the so tor is heavily used
throughout
um data is ingressed into an s4 server
over tor and that can be done through
tor browser
just by standard user or your code
can write can write data to the part of
me
to the s4 server then
when you write data into the server you
have you can create buckets just like in
s3
each of your buckets get paired off with
a
key in ipfs and every time you update
the data in the buckets
uh the bucket will get published using
that key
what this means is that you can create
you can address any of the content
stored on your s4 server
using this kind of url here where it
should be the key of the bucket
and then this would be the path of the
file that you stored in the bucket
so i guess a question a lot of you are
asking is a bit of a um
quite difficult or complicated to
communicate with this s4 server
from yeah all these kind of promo
languages so how do we achieve this
it's achieved with a sidecar container
so
this slide that you're seeing here
represents an example application
using um s4 so if we had an application
i've got a node example here i've titled
it my app
we have a node um application and we
want to store the data
uh we got to store say images um on s4
instead of s3
how do we do that so we run our two
containers
our node.js uh container here and
our s4 client which acts as a sidecar
container
the code inside the um the code inside
the
node app you must you should surely be
able to recognize a lot of this code
here
we import the official amazon aws sdk
and we even instantiate the s3 class
of that but notice here the end point
is pointing to our local s4 client which
is this container here
you can see and we also brought it with
the access key and secret
uh secret access key as well and
we can just we can use all of the
existing um aws methods that
the sdk provides us completely there's
no other modification has to be
used but when i put this object into the
bucket it will go over tor into s4 and
then be published to ipfs
so then onto reading data how do we read
the data
from from s4 um again i had a few
specifications on how i wanted to make
this work
um namely the fact that i didn't want to
have
um didn't want to require use javascript
um the beauty of s4
is that the data gets requested over
http gateways
meaning that if you don't want to use
javascript and you just want to have a
plain image tag
you can have a plain image tag and that
that image will be loaded
over s4 using a public gateway this also
allows for human readable file paths
uh this bucket this is this hash only
references the bucket
therefore all the content is human
readable as you see here
so i've said a lot there let's try uh do
a live demo where we're gonna
actually create an s4 server um if
anyone's interested in following along
with this you can go to this url
right here idea inc forward slash s4 and
you can follow along it only requires
four
uh commands to actually start up the
server so let's give it a go
so if we head over to the github here
this is the s4 github repository
i will just get the url
and my temporary directory here and i'm
going to run the command
uh clean
s4
and we'll cd into the s4 repository
and once you're in the repository uh
first thing we have to do is we have to
make a onion address for our server we
have to
have a private key so we can do that
using this command here
um again this is all provided in the
readme of the repo so it's pretty much a
copy and pasteable
if we run that command what happens
great it's generated us this onion
address here
now this onion address is referencing or
this this is the onion dress for our
like local
s4 server that i'm gonna run now in
docker
then to get the project started simply
run the command docker
composer
great and it looks like it's all
starting there brilliant
so what have we done here we have just
we've now fully set up our s4 server in
just those four commands it's as simple
as that
so i'll give it a moment to boot up and
it looks like tor has bootstrapped
properly
so if i open up tor browser
might take a second because the domain
needs to be published and stuff like
that but
after about five minutes that url that
you just created will become a
chessboard of the tool browser
so give that a moment
and let that load
uh this might take a second so what
we'll do is we'll continue over the rest
of the
presentation so let's so now we have
this s4 server set up and or right now
it's running on my
on my laptop we can go ahead and assume
that this is say some server which is
somewhere on the planet um obviously
the actual ip address is unknown because
it's using tor
so how would our application actually
write data to that
so i'll give a quick example
in the root of the s4 repository there's
a directory called example
and this example directory is the
example i just gave in the presentation
demonstrating s4 working with the
official aws sdk
first uh let's nano
we have to quickly update the env and
give
it our s4 address and we'll exit that
then we run the command docker compose
up minus d and i will pop that
good so that now is booting up uh what
would be
which would be like an application which
might write ss for in production
so
let's actually test and see if our um if
we can
uh now we're going to run this block of
code here which hopefully we'll be able
to create us a bucket on our server
and upload a file into that server so
i'll run the command
here again all of these commands are in
the readme of the um of the repository
and looks like we've successfully
created our pocket and we've accessibly
uploaded a file into that bucket
so this here represents how we can
upload content from our application into
s4
and now this pdf file example the pdf
which is uploaded into the
um into s4 hopefully now will be
accessible
over ipfs so let's see if that's
[Music]
happened
here we go so uh minio
is like an open source version of um aws
s3
um it's all the api methods are uh
compatible with s3
so i'm just going to try and log into it
now and hopefully we have to find our
file in there
and then i also got to show you how you
can actually access read that file sorry
um over ipfs so wait we've logged in
thank you
there we go so
[Music]
what i'm doing now is i'm doing the
equivalent of logging into the f4 server
and as you can see here this is the
example
file that i've just uploaded um
through using the example using the
example code
the obvious question is how would i then
access this file over
ipfs now there's a drip there's a bucket
which isn't published ipfs called system
and inside the system directory all of
the hashes to those keys
are accessible here in this file so
this this here this hash represent is
the key
that this bucket was published under
what it means is is
if i go to ipfs.io
ipns
this won't load straight away obviously
because the um
because it's going to take a moment to
actually find that bucket but what
happened is once
after that buckets are propagated over
the ipfs network
you'll be able to navigate to that url
and also go to navigate
to the forward slash exam pull.ppf
and that will that will then load that
file um then over the ipfs network
what this allows is allows us to store
data on
ipfs without requiring developers to
actually change their code
um i think there's a lot of great
products in the ips community right now
but i don't think it's massively
realistic to expect
large large corporate companies and
development teams to change
uh to change their um to change their
code to kind of fit with ipfs
it makes far more sense um that we we
make ipfs and augment any of those
changes that are necessary
um and that's what i've managed to do
here using this kind of sidecar
container system
this allows developers to keep their
existing code but then write the data
to ipfs under the hood with actually
with no changes whatsoever required to
their code
so that's pretty much terrorism i had
today
you